---
layout: post
title: Python CS116 Winter - Assignment 06
categories:
- assignment
tags:
- Python
- Data Structure
- iteration (while and for loops)
---

### Question 3

- In this question, you are going to play a special version of the popular game Mastermind. 
The object of the game for the user is to identify a keyword by making a series of guesses. 
You will write a function verbal_mastermind which consumes a target string of all lowercase letters 
called a keyword of length between 2 and 100, informs the user how many characters are in the keyword 
and prompts the user for input until the user guesses the keyword or quits (see below). 
The function produces None. Your program starts by telling the user how many 
characters the keyword has using the string: The keyword has # characters. 
(where # is replaced by the number of characters in the keyword). 
Then, you are to prompt the user using the sentence: 

Please enter a guess: (Notice there is a space after the colon above). 

Guesses will consist of only lowercase letters or the string "!quit". 
For a given guess, your program will request a new word if the length of the guess 
is not the same as the target using these lines printed on separate lines: 
Your guess contains an incorrect number of characters. The keyword has # characters. 
(where # is replaced by the number of characters in the keyword). 
Otherwise, the program will print to the screen the number of characters that 
are correct and in the correct position and also print the number of characters 
(excluding those already correct) that are in the word but not in the correct position. 

For example, if the keyword was the string "answers" and the guessed word was "peelers", 
the program would output: Exact: 3, Other: 0 The letters "ers" match exactly 
whereas the remaining letters "peel" and "answ" share no common letters. 
See the first example below for other cases. If the user guesses "!quit" (no quotes), 
your program should stop and tell the user the correct answer (see the prompt below). 
If the user guesses the correct answer. The program should print out the word Congratulations! 
followed by telling the user the correct answer using the prompt 
(on the same line with a space after the exclamation point): 

The correct keyword was answers. Here are three  examples:

>>>verbal_mastermind("answers")
The keyword has 7 characters.
Please enter a guess: bananas
Exact: 1, Other: 2
Please enter a guess: aaaaaaa
Exact: 1, Other: 0
Please enter a guess: andoras
Exact: 3, Other: 1
Please enter a guess: peelers
Exact: 3, Other: 0
Please enter a guess: startle
Exact: 0, Other: 4
Please enter a guess: answers
Congratulations! The correct keyword was answers.
>>>verbal_mastermind("money")
The keyword has 5 characters.
Please enter a guess: money
Congratulations! The correct keyword was money.

>>>verbal_mastermind("failed")
The keyword has 6 characters.
Please enter a guess: banana
Exact: 1, Other: 0
Please enter a guess: toomanycharacters
Your guess contains an incorrect number of characters.
The keyword has 6 characters.
Please enter a guess: !quit
The correct keyword was failed.

### Question 4
A fun game people sometimes play is figuring out which words their phone number spells using the mapping given by (cite http://static.trustedreviews.com/94/000026330/c000/OT-­‐282.jpg):  0 – [] 1 – [] 2 – [A,B,C] 3 – [D,E,F] 4 – [G,H,I] 5 – [J,K,L] 6 – [M,N,O] 7 – [P,Q,R,S] 8 – [T,U,V] 9 – [W,X,Y,Z]  Your job will be to write a function phone_word which consumes a phone number num which is a natural number consisting of 7 digits or less and returns a list of all possible phone words that can be achieved (in all capital letters). For example, if the number consumed was 2629327, then some words in the output list include COBWEBS, BOAWEBS, COAXEAR, ANAXEAR and others. Note that all these words need not be valid English words; just strings consisting of capital letters. As another example, if the number entered was 6391866 one of the output words would be NEWTON. The phone words in the list should be in alphabetical order. Here are two complete examples: phone_word(2160) => [‘AM’, ‘AN’, ‘AO’, ‘BM’, ‘BN’, ‘BO’, ‘CM’, ‘CN’, ‘CO’] phone_word(1001100) => [] You may (and should) use the global constant phone_dictionary as given in the interface file. Hints: Try to keep your testing data small – restrict yourself to numbers with at most 4 digits in your testing and/or numbers with more 0s and 1s. Given a list of phone words using the first `n’ digits, how would you add the next digit to this list? Removing and adding elements to the same list might be a useful technique.