---
layout: post
title: Python CS116 Winter - to write a function phone_word
categories:
- assignment
tags:
- Python
- Data Structure
- iteration (while and for loops)
---


### Question 4

A fun game people sometimes play is figuring out which words their 
phone number spells using the mapping given by 
(cite http://static.trustedreviews.com/94/000026330/c000/OT-­‐282.jpg):  
0 – [] 
1 – [] 
2 – [A,B,C] 
3 – [D,E,F] 
4 – [G,H,I] 
5 – [J,K,L] 
6 – [M,N,O] 
7 – [P,Q,R,S] 
8 – [T,U,V] 
9 – [W,X,Y,Z]  

Your job will be to write a function phone_word which consumes a phone number 
num which is a natural number consisting of 7 digits or less and returns a 
list of all possible phone words that can be achieved (in all capital letters). 
For example, if the number consumed was 2629327, then some words in the 
output list include COBWEBS, BOAWEBS, COAXEAR, ANAXEAR and others. 
Note that all these words need not be valid English words; just strings 
consisting of capital letters. As another example, if the number entered 
was 6391866 one of the output words would be NEWTON. The phone words 
in the list should be in alphabetical order. Here are two complete 
examples: phone_word(2160) => [‘AM’, ‘AN’, ‘AO’, ‘BM’, ‘BN’, ‘BO’, ‘CM’, ‘CN’, ‘CO’] 
phone_word(1001100) => [] You may (and should) use the global constant 
phone_dictionary as given in the interface file. 

Hints: Try to keep your testing data small – restrict yourself to 
numbers with at most 4 digits in your testing and/or numbers with 
more 0s and 1s. Given a list of phone words using the first `n’ digits, 
how would you add the next digit to this list? Removing and adding 
elements to the same list might be a useful technique.